DOCS-643: Sources of system metrics. (#11032)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/system-tables.md

# System Tables {#system-tables}

## Introduction

> System tables provide:
> 
> - Information about server states, processes and environment.
> - Support for server's internal processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
System tables provide information about:

- Server states, processes, and environment.
- Server's internal processes.
```

System tables:

> - Don't store data and metadata in the storage filesystem. ClickHouse server creates system tables at start.

Reviewer: Afaik not always true, some tables are persisted.

Reviewer 2: query_log, metric_log, trace_log and probably others store data on disk. You can check data directory if you have ClickHouse running

- Located in the `system` database.
- Available only for reading data.

> - Can't be deleted, but can be detached.

Reviewer: * Alter is also worth mentioning.
* Deleted -> dropped.

> ### Sources of system metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sources of System Metrics
```

For collecting system metrics ClickHouse server uses:

> - `CAP_*_ADMIN` capabilities.

Reviewer: need some explanation/reference/wiki links

> - procfs (only in Linux).

Reviewer: here too

**procfs**

> If ClickHouse binary file doesn't `CAP_NET_ADMIN` capability, the server tries to fallback to `ProcfsMetricsProvider`. `ProcfsMetricsProvider` allows to collect per-query system metrics (for CPU and I/O).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If ClickHouse server doesn't have `CAP_NET_ADMIN` capability, it tries to fall back to `ProcfsMetricsProvider`. `ProcfsMetricsProvider` allows collecting per-query system metrics (for CPU and I/O).
```

> If procfs is supported and enabled on the system, ClickHouse server collects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If procfs is supported and enabled on the system, ClickHouse server collects these metrics:
```
